   Link: canonical
   Link: sitemap
   [ Submit ]
   Explore Download Learn Values Community Blog Donate  Search

                              NixOS 22.11 released

   Published on Thu Dec 01 2022

                              NixOS 22.11 released

   NixOS 22.11 Raccoon logo

   Hey everyone, we are Martin Weinelt and Janne Heß, the release managers
   for this stable release and we are very proud to announce the public
   availability of NixOS 22.11 “Raccoon”.

   This release will receive bugfixes and security updates for seven months
   (up until 2023-06-30).

     * Release manual
          * Highlights
          * Internal changes
          * Notable version Updates
          * Backward Incompatibilities
          * Other Notable Changes
          * New Services
     * Upgrade Instructions
     * ISO Image Downloads

   The 22.11 release was made possible due to the efforts of 1652
   contributors, who authored 30371 commits since the previous release. Our
   thanks go the contributors who also take care of the continued stability
   and security of our stable distribution.

   NixOS is already known as the most up to date distribution while also
   being the distribution with the most packages. This release saw 16678 new
   packages and 14680 updated packages in nixpkgs. We also removed 2812
   packages in an effort to keep the package set maintainable and secure. In
   addition to packages the NixOS distribution also features modules and
   tests that make it what it is. This release brought 91 new modules and
   removed 20. In that process we added 1322 options and removed 487.

  Password hashing migration

   During the NixOS 22.11 lifecycle old password hashes may need to be
   updated, because we plan to disable weak password hashes in NixOS 23.05.
   We consider password hashing methods weak, if the libxcrypt project did
   not flag them strong. If your system is configured with weak hashes a
   script will emit a warning during activation. We expect most users
   accounts to be set up with sha512crypt (hash prefixed with $6$) which we
   will continue to support. Interactively configured passwords can be
   updated using passwd, new password hashes can be generated through
   mkpasswd.

  aarch64-linux channel merge

   The separate aarch64-linux specific channels have been discontinued. Their
   jobs have been merged into the generic nixos-22.11 and nixos-22.11-small
   channels and will thereby receive updates at the same time as their
   x86_64-linux counterparts.

  Special Thanks

   We want to personally thank Winter and Jörg Thalheim for editorializing
   the release notes, Vladimír Čunát for his tireless effort in managing
   jobsets and staging cycles, and Graham Christensen for dutifully tending
   to our build infrastructure.

  Reflections and Closing

   I’m thankful for being given the chance to guide the release process. It
   is an exciting experience and seeing the tremendous collaborative effort
   the community invests to make the release a success is inspiring. While
   previous release managers made great strides to document the process there
   are lots of steps that could be benefit from better documentation and more
   tooling. It is our hope that future release managers and the community
   will iterate further on this.

    The Project

     * Channel Status
     * Packages search
     * Options search
     * Reproducible Builds Status
     * Security

    Get in Touch

     * Forum
     * Matrix Chat
     * Commercial support

    Contribute

     * Contributing Guide
     * Donate

    Stay up to Date

     * Blog
     * Newsletter

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Copyright © 2024 NixOS contributors
   CC-BY-SA-4.0

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Connect with us:
