   Link: canonical
   Link: sitemap
   [ Submit ]
   Explore Download Learn Values Community Blog Donate  Search

                                     Donate

                                     Donate

   The NixOS infrastructure, development and events are funded by its users
   and sponsors.

   Maintaining our build farm and binary cache is very expensive. We depend
   on your support to ensure the continuous operation and expansion of the
   NixOS infrastructure.

   Please consider donating a small amount every month to contribute to
   sustainable funding. Donations are handled by a nonprofit organization,
   the NixOS Foundation.

                        NixOS T-shirts, mugs and more...

   Donate to NixOS foundation by purchasing NixOS merchandise.

   Go to the shop (RedBubble)

Donate using Open Collective

   NixOS Foundation is using Open Collective to manage the finances so
   everyone can see where money comes from and where money goes.

   With Open Collective you can make a single or recurring contribution by
   credit card transfer.

   Thank you!

   Contribute

Donate with SEPA bank transfer

   The NixOS Foundation also accepts donations via SEPA bank transfer. Please
   send payments to:

 Stichting NixOS Foundation, Utrecht, The Netherlands

 IBAN: NL13 BUNQ 2061 2530 32
 BIC:  BUNQNL2AXXX

   Please add your name and purpose (donation) in the description of the
   transfer. If you would like to support us with amounts above 2000 euro per
   year, please contact us at foundation@nixos.org , as this will have tax
   implications.

   4TU logo
   Antithesis logo
   Equinix logo
   Fastly logo
   Hetzner logo
   LogicBlox logo
   MacStadium logo
   Snabb logo
   TU Delft logo
   Universiteit Utrecht logo

Acknowledgements

   The Nix package manager was developed by Eelco Dolstra as part of his PhD
   research in the TraCE project, funded by the Jacquard programme of the
   Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO) and SERC. The first
   prototype of NixOS was developed by Armijn Hemel as his master’s thesis
   project. Hydra, the Nix-based continuous build system, was developed as
   part of the LaQuSo Buildfarm project, funded by NIRICT and LaQuSo.

   The following companies and institutes have supported the development of
   NixOS and hosting for its infrastructure. We are very grateful for that!
   If you would like to support us as well, please contact The NixOS
   Foundation.

    The Project

     * Channel Status
     * Packages search
     * Options search
     * Reproducible Builds Status
     * Security

    Get in Touch

     * Forum
     * Matrix Chat
     * Commercial support

    Contribute

     * Contributing Guide
     * Donate

    Stay up to Date

     * Blog
     * Newsletter

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Copyright © 2024 NixOS contributors
   CC-BY-SA-4.0

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Connect with us:
