   Link: canonical
   Link: sitemap
   [ Submit ]
   Explore Download Learn Values Community Blog Donate  Search

                                    Explore

                                    Explore

Find out why so many developers, system administrators and other enthusiasts use
                   Nix and cannot imagine a world without it.

   1

Always working development environment.

   Nix provides developers with a complete and consistent development
   environment. Stop worrying how to install dependencies for your project.

   complete dependencies

   With Nix, a build process only has access to dependencies that have been
   declared explicitly. So if a build succeeds, you know you've specified all
   necessary dependencies.

   The same build process specification can be used to start a development
   environment (optionally augmented with additional development tools).

   You will no longer have to hear:,  But it works on my machine!

One tool, many languages.

   With today's polyglot development environments, each language has its own
   way of building and testing. Encourage cross-team development by providing
   a single way of building everything.

   language agnosticportable

   Instead of complicated installation instructions, with Nix the development
   environment is always only one command away. And that is without using
   Docker or any other virtualization.

   Language specific package managers are good at dependencies in their
   specific language. But they cannot provide other dependencies, like the
   ones you would usually have to install system-wide.

   2
   3

Continuous integration for free.

   Your development environment is your continuous integration environment.
   The same environment always and everywhere.

   reproducibilitycontinuous integration

   Being able to fix broken continuous integration runs is great, but being
   able to fix problems locally, before pushing, is priceless.

   Trying to keep system dependencies of development environments in sync
   with continuous integration is a disaster waiting to happen.  Don't wait
   for the disaster, prevent it.

From zero to cloud.

   Use the same tool to build projects, configure machines and deploy to the
   cloud.

   cloud imagesdocker imagesdeclarative configurations

   Using one tool to develop, test and build Amazon EC2, Google Cloud, Azure,
   Virtualbox, KVM and other images in a declarative way is a DevOps dream.

   Forget Dockerfiles and build docker images with Nix in a declarative and
   efficient way.  Nix and Docker is a match made in heaven.

   4
   5

Is the previous version better? Roll back anytime.

   Always be able to roll back to the version that you want. Never end up
   with a broken system.

   rollbackgarbage collectionatomicnix store

   Nix never overwrites files, but just adds new versions in different paths.

   And since nothing is overwritten, the old versions are still there after
   an upgrade. This means that you can quickly roll back to the old version.

Experiment without fear.

   There should be no fear of breaking your system when experimenting with
   new software. We all learn best when we play around.

   rollbacknix store

   Install new software without risk of things breaking. Nix prevents
   conflicts not only between multiple development environments, but also
   with the operating system. Your work environment will stay intact, but
   allows you to experiment in a safe way.

   No need to turn your system upside down just because you want to test some
   experimental and bleeding edge versions of software.

   6
   7

Contributing is only a pull request away.

   Community is at the core of Nix. Collaboration is encouraged by providing
   a low barrier to contribute and bots to guide contributors through the
   process.

   communitycontributegithub

   Development of Nix, the Nix packages collection and the NixOS Linux
   distribution happens on GitHub. To contribute to any of the Nix projects,
   just open a pull request on GitHub. The bots and community members will
   guide you through the process to ensure quality.

    The Project

     * Channel Status
     * Packages search
     * Options search
     * Reproducible Builds Status
     * Security

    Get in Touch

     * Forum
     * Matrix Chat
     * Commercial support

    Contribute

     * Contributing Guide
     * Donate

    Stay up to Date

     * Blog
     * Newsletter

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Copyright © 2024 NixOS contributors
   CC-BY-SA-4.0

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Connect with us:
