   Link: canonical
   Link: sitemap
   [ Submit ]
   Explore Download Learn Values Community Blog Donate  Search

                              NixOS 22.05 released

   Published on Mon May 30 2022

                              NixOS 22.05 released

   22.05 Quokka logo

   Hey everyone, I’m Janne Heß, the release manager for 22.05. As promised,
   the latest stable release is here: NixOS 22.05 “Quokka”.

     * Release manual
          * Highlights
          * New Services
          * Backward Incompatibilities
          * Other Notable Changes
     * Upgrade Instructions
     * Image downloads

   The 22.05 release was possible due to the efforts of 1611 contributors in
   46727 commits. We would especially like to thank our top 10 contributors:
   Fabian Affolter, Sandro Jäckel, Martin Weinelt, Bobby Rong, Mario Rodas,
   Jonathan Ringer, Jan Tojnar, Jörg Thalheim, sternenseemann, and Robert
   Schütz.

   NixOS is already known as the most up to date distribution and is the
   distribution with the most packages. This release saw 9345 new packages
   and 10666 updated packages. Removal of unmaintained packages is also
   important to keep the package set working and secure. This release removed
   5874 packages that were available in 21.11. nixpkgs also includes a lot of
   modules that make NixOS what it is. This release brought 89 new modules
   and removed 27. In that process, the contributors added 1304 options and
   removed 359.

  Nix 2.8

   This release brings nix 2.8 as the default nix package. This brings users
   a lot of fixes, general improvements and increased performance. The main
   feature that was awaited for a long time is the introduction of
   experimental features, namely the flakes experimental feature. Users still
   have to opt into the feature manually (as well as the nix-command feature
   that was enabled by default in previous nix versions).

  Graphical installer

   Screenshot of the NixOS graphical installerImproving experience for new
   users is something that the NixOS project has been working on for a long
   time. After all, NixOS is a very different compared to traditional
   distributions. To make it easier to get started with a new NixOS system, a
   graphical installer based on Calamares is now provided. This installer
   starts by default when launching the GNOME or Plasma ISO and allows for
   one-time configuration of a new system.

  Special Thanks

   Thanks to Jörg Thalheim who helped with the changelog as the release
   editor. Also to Jon Ringer for guiding the release process since NixOS
   20.09. Vladimír Čunát and Martin Weinelt for their continued efforts
   managing and stabilizing staging. More thanks go out to Martin Weinelt for
   helping me with a lot of questions about the process and some subsystems,
   your help was greatly appreciated. Also thanks a lot to Graham Christensen
   for organizing with Equinix Metal to ensure we had enough compute
   resources and the entire infrastructure team. Additional thanks go out to
   Rick van Schijndel for going through all the pain of marking packages that
   do not build anymore as broken. I hope we can make the process more
   straightforward in future releases.

  Reflections and Closing

   This release brought a lot of features and improvements I’ve been waiting
   to see in a release channel. It was a great pleasure working with the
   community and seeing incredible amounts of work being done by the entire
   community.

    The Project

     * Channel Status
     * Packages search
     * Options search
     * Reproducible Builds Status
     * Security

    Get in Touch

     * Forum
     * Matrix Chat
     * Commercial support

    Contribute

     * Contributing Guide
     * Donate

    Stay up to Date

     * Blog
     * Newsletter

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Copyright © 2024 NixOS contributors
   CC-BY-SA-4.0

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Connect with us:
